In the last lecture we created our simple home test to test our home controller and verify that the
two pages that are there contain specific text.
Now let's do something more complicated.
Let's generate our new test for our post controller.
So this is BGP artisan make test post test.
We have our test class created.
Let's immediately remove this trade import we want to use it but actually this time we will use this
refresh database trade so this is a very useful thing.
It lets you recreate that database structure by running all the migrations on each single test run.
So how this works is that let's take a look at this test for example so it will recreate the database
before this test runs.
So if you will create three tests that interact with the database somehow like save on your blog post.
Then when you run another test this would be the database would be recreated and empty again.
So whenever you create something write something to the database it won't affect other tests.
I was already mentioning this in the last lecture but now let's see how that works.
So first let's see potential problem that we might be having by using the Eskew a light and let's immediately
run this simple test to see what do I mean.
So we are running the tests by running the BHP unit and you can see the problem and it is that cannot
add not no column with the default value.
No.
So it's a behavior of the Eskew a light that when you will have fields that are defined as not normal
they need to have a default value.
So here is the specific error that it complains about the blog posts table title and content fields
so we can modify this migration because our development environment already has this run.
So we do not really have to worry about that just for the sake of our Eskil light database.
We'll modify it to contain our default value.
Now if you would rerun this now you can see that everything is fine so let's go back and actually create
a test.
So we should start by checking if there are no blog posts that we want to see and a blog post.
So we will see the text that is our default value so let's go to the browser.
Delete this post and go to the blog posts so you can see that the default text is no blog posts yet.
So we should definitely create a test for such scenario.
You can call it no blog posts when nothing in database doesn't really matter how you call it.
Now we have to fetch this end point so it's slash posts and the only assertion would be absurd C text
when we'll verify if we can see this text when there are no blog posts in the database.
So now let's run it and you can see that this works we have five Tests and seven assertions now you
can also see that this test only contains the act part and the Assert part.
So there is no French part.
So let's create another test in which we'll actually have the French part.
So we'll create a new method and call it test C one block post when there is one.
So I come up with this very long test names but believe me it really makes sense when you then go back
to this test after some time and have no clue what these tests are actually verifying.
So we'll do it simply we'll create a new blog post assign a title to it
the content
and finally will save this blog post so we can do that in test and that is our arrange part.
So before we are actually doing something we are arranging some objects we are preparing something we
would like to test.
So in this case we are just saving a new model inside the database.
So now there is our act.
Part and our act is simply fetching the least of the blog posts.
And our final assault part is verifying that we can see the title of this blog post on the page so we
can do.
Response assert C text and we should be able to see the title of this blog post so it is new title so
we should see such text on the page.
Now let's run this and of course we have an error because we haven't imported the blog post.
So let's other use case use up blog post say the changes and now rerun the test.
So now it's passing and you can see that we've already tested that when there is one blog post it should
be visible on the page.
So in case you will make some changes like you wouldn't display a title on the list of all the blog
posts or you will just display a part of the title.
This test might just start failing so it's actually verifying a pretty important feature of our very
simple application now till now you always see me using this assert seat takes us.
That's pretty straightforward and simple way of checking for simple things but obviously lava comes
with much more assertions and you can find that on this link.
It's part of the lava documentation and here you can see all the possible assertions that you can use.
Additionally we can check something directly inside the database so we can check if there is a record
with a specific attribute.
So let's just do it.
There is this method assert database has and here will specify inside which table we would like to find
something.
And in this case we would like to find inside the block underscore a post table that there is a record
with the title being exact of new title.
So this is another assertion you can use and let's see if it works at all.
So now you see that we have still 6 days but nine assertions.
So this is another assertion we can use and it is very simple just tricks if inside specific table there
is a record that attribute is equal to this value.